== v0.9.1 [2011-10-12] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Bugfix: use a dup of the default content-type constant instead 
of the String itself.


== v0.9.0 [2011-10-12] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

- Fix Mongrel2::Table not duping/cloning its internal values.
- Set a default Content-type header in HTTP responses


== v0.8.0 [2011-10-12] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

- Split out the normalization of HTTP response headers into two
  methods for overriding.


== v0.7.0 [2011-10-09] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

- Add an optional #request attribute to Mongrel2::Response and make
  Response.from_request set it. This is to make things like content-
  negotiation less of a pain in the ass.
- Log request and response both at INFO.


== v0.6.0 [2011-10-03] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Mongrel2::HTTPRequest enhancements.
- Added #body= for rewriting the entity body
- Added convenience methods for fetching the Content-type and Content-
  encoding headers: #content_type, #content_encoding
- Switched the specs to use Mongrel2::RequestFactory for making
  request objects


== v0.5.0 [2011-09-30] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Enhancements:
- Added support for POST and HEAD requests to Mongrel2::RequestFactory.


== v0.4.0 [2011-09-27] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Additions:
- Added Mongrel2::Config::Server.by_uuid( uuid )


== v0.3.1 [2011-09-27] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Bugfix:
- Measure the content-length of HTTPResponse in bytes, not characters.
- Log unhandled disconnect notices as INFO instead of WARN

Enhancements:
- Made a stringified connection show the useful parts of the inspect
  output


== v0.3.0 [2011-09-23] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

- Mongrel2::Client fixes/documentation updates.
- Include FileUtils in the 'm2sh.rb load' context so configs 
  loaded by it can create run/log directories, etc.
- Mongrel2::Connection: Set SO_LINGER on the sockets so 
  closing the connection doesn't wait for unconsumed events.
- Add missing include to Mongrel2::Handler


== v0.2.4 [2011-09-21] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

- Added a cleaned-up Mongrel2::Response#inspect like
  Mongrel2::Request.
- Correct body size in inspected request/response output.


== v0.2.3 [2011-09-21] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

- Change the default response status from '200 OK' to '204 No Content'


== v0.2.2 [2011-09-19] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

- Packaging fix


== v0.2.1 [2011-09-19] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

- Add missing HTTP::CONTINUE constant.


== v0.2.0 [2011-09-18] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

- Factor out the generically-useful RSpec helper functions into
  mongrel2/testing.rb and add a RequestFactory.
- Fix object ID in inspect output, clean up inspected Request/Response
  objects.
- Tightened up the mongrel2.org DSL example, remove the accidentally-
  committed adminserver part.
- Request dumper now runs under $SAFE = 1
- Revert examples back to using examples.sqlite
- Added a bit of CSS to the examples
- Config DSL: directory: Default the index file to index.html


== v0.1.2 [2011-09-16] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Fixed some header problems in Mongrel2::HTTPResponse:

- Re-calculate content-length and date headers on each render.
- Don't clear headers passed to the constructor.


== v0.1.1 [2011-11-14] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Update dependency to rbzmq-2.1.4 for ZMQ::Error.


== v0.1.0 [2011-11-14] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Memoize Mongrel2::Request#response, and add Mongrel2::Request.response_class to
allow for easy overriding of the response type.


== v0.0.2 [2011-11-13] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Added a shim to work around lack of ZMQ::Error in zmq-2.1.3.


== v0.0.1 [2011-09-12] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Initial release.

